Add documentation for Day 2-7 Activation, Google Play Store and Apple App Store (#545)
mozilla/firefox-data-docs: src/datasets/non_desktop/apple_app_store/reference.md

# Apple App Store
<!-- toc -->

# Introduction

> The [`apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&folder=&organizationId=&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) dataset is used to understand the acquisition performance for the nondesktop products through the Apple App Store along the key metrics and dimensions. Apple’s documentation for all metrics and dimensions can be found [here](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/itc21781223f).

Reviewer: I try really hard not to just use "here" for hyperlinks. There's a bunch of essays on this online, including this one:

https://medium.com/@heyoka/dont-use-click-here-f32f445d1021

```suggestion
The [`apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&folder=&organizationId=&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) dataset is used to understand the acquisition performance for mobile products on the Apple App Store along the key metrics and dimensions. Apple’s documentation for all metrics and dimensions can be found [in the app store connect reference](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/itc21781223f).
```

# Contents
The [`apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&folder=&organizationId=&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) dataset contains a collection of aggregated tables by a singular dimension that explains the performance of acquisition activity through the Apple App Store. 

> **IMPORTANT NOTE:** The data is received from Apple with only one dimension per metric. As a result, we are unable to do multi-dimensional analysis. i.e. we can tell how each storefront is performing but we can’t further breakdown the storefront to see how specific platforms or sources are contributing to that storefront’s performance. 
> 

Reviewer: The same caveat is repeated below under background and caveats, let's skip it here

```suggestion
```

> The dimensions (saved as individual derived tables)  include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dimensions (saved as individual derived tables) include:

```

> - [`platform`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&t=metrics_by_platform&page=table) - The device type on which the app was downloaded or used. E.g. iPad, iPod, or iPhone.

Reviewer: Should we use the actual table name here? I think it might be a bit more clear.

```suggestion
- [`metrics_by_platform`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&t=metrics_by_platform&page=table) - The device type on which the app was downloaded or used. E.g. iPad, iPod, or iPhone.
```

I won't suggest for the others, but same principle applies.

- **deletions_opt_in** - The number of times your app was deleted on devices running iOS 12.3 or tvOS 9 or later. This data includes deletions of the app from the Home Screen and deletions of the app through Manage Storage. Data from resetting or erasing a device's content and settings is not included. Data for this metric is “opt-in” - collected only if users have agreed to share their diagnostics and usage information with app developers.
- **installations_opt_in** - The total number of times your app has been installed on devices with iOS 8 or tvOS 9, or later. Redownloads on the same device, downloads to multiple devices sharing the same Apple ID, and Family Sharing installations are included. Data for this metric is “opt-in” - collected only if users have agreed to share their diagnostics and usage information with app developers.
- **sessions_opt_in** - The number of times the app has been used for at least two seconds. If the app is in the background and is later used again, that counts as another session. Data for this metric is “opt-in” - collected only if users have agreed to share their diagnostics and usage information with app developers.

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Background and Caveats

> The data is received from Apple with only one dimension per metric. As a result, we are unable to do multi-dimensional analysis. i.e. we can tell how each storefront is performing but we can’t further breakdown the storefront to see how specific platforms or sources are contributing to that storefront’s performance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data is received from Apple with only one dimension per metric. As a result, we are unable to do multi-dimensional analysis. i.e. we can tell how each storefront is performing but we can’t see how specific platforms or sources are contributing to it.
```

## Accessing the Data

Access the data at [`moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&folder=&organizationId=&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset)

# Data Reference

## Schema
```
metrics_by_[dimension] tables
root
    |- date: date
    |- app_name: string
    |- [app_referrer | app_version | campaign | platform | platform_version | region | source | storefront | web_referrer]: string
    |- app_units: integer
    |- impressions: integer
    |- impressions_unique_device: integer
    |- product_page_views: integer
    |- product_page_views_unique_device: integer
    |- active_devices_opt_in: integer
    |- active_devices_last_30_days_opt_in: integer
    |- deletions_opt_in: integer
    |- installations_opt_in: integer
    |- sessions_opt_in: integer

```

> ## Example Queries

Author: added

> ##### Calculate App Store Activity for a given day by app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calculate App Store Activity for a given day by app
```

> ```sql

Author: Interesting... will look into this.

SELECT
  date,
  app_name,
  SUM(impressions_unique_device) as unique_device_impressions,
  SUM(product_page_views_unique_device) as unique_device_page_views,
  SUM(app_units) as installs,
  SAFE_DIVIDE(SUM(product_page_views_unique_device), SUM(impressions_unique_device)) as unique_device_page_view_rate,
  SAFE_DIVIDE(SUM(app_units), SUM(product_page_views_unique_device)) as install_rate
FROM
  `moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store.metrics_total`
WHERE
  date = "2020-08-20"
GROUP BY
  date, app_name

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  ```

> ##### Calculate App Store Activity for a given day and app by source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calculate App Store Activity for a given day and app by source
```

```sql
SELECT
  date,
  app_name,
  source,
  SUM(impressions_unique_device) as unique_device_impressions,
  SUM(product_page_views_unique_device) as unique_device_page_views,
  SUM(app_units) as installs,
  SAFE_DIVIDE(SUM(product_page_views_unique_device), SUM(impressions_unique_device)) as unique_device_page_view_rate,
  SAFE_DIVIDE(SUM(app_units), SUM(product_page_views_unique_device)) as install_rate
FROM
  `moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store.metrics_by_source`
WHERE
  date = "2020-08-20"
  AND app_name = "Firefox"
GROUP BY
  date, app_name, source
```

## Scheduling

> The job to retrieve the raw data from the Apple App Store can be found in [github](https://github.com/mozilla/app-store-analytics-export). The export results in individual metrics grouped by a single dimension. These exports are initially loaded into the [`apple_app_store_exported`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store_exported&page=dataset) datasource. The exports are scheduled in [`airflow`](https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow/blob/master/dags/app_store_analytics.py). The job to create the derived tables found in [`moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) can be found in [`bigquery-etl`](https://github.com/mozilla/bigquery-etl/tree/master/sql/apple_app_store).

Reviewer 2: For the second sentence I think this would be clearer:
```
The exported results are individual metrics grouped by a single dimension.
```

The github suggestion is a little long.

Author: Changed

> The job to retrieve the raw data from the Apple App Store can be found in [github](https://github.com/mozilla/app-store-analytics-export). The export results in individual metrics grouped by a single dimension. These exports are initially loaded into the [`apple_app_store_exported`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store_exported&page=dataset) datasource. The exports are scheduled in [`airflow`](https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow/blob/master/dags/app_store_analytics.py). The job to create the derived tables found in [`moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) can be found in [`bigquery-etl`](https://github.com/mozilla/bigquery-etl/tree/master/sql/apple_app_store).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The job to retrieve the raw data from the Apple App Store can be found in [the `app-store-analytics-export` repository](https://github.com/mozilla/app-store-analytics-export). The export results in individual metrics grouped by a single dimension. These exports are initially loaded into the [`apple_app_store_exported`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store_exported&page=dataset) datasource. The exports are scheduled in [`airflow`](https://github.com/mozilla/telemetry-airflow/blob/master/dags/app_store_analytics.py). The job to create the derived tables found in [`moz-fx-data-marketing-prod.apple_app_store`](https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?project=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&p=moz-fx-data-marketing-prod&d=apple_app_store&page=dataset) can be found in [`bigquery-etl` under `apple_app_store`](https://github.com/mozilla/bigquery-etl/tree/master/sql/apple_app_store).
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
